README.md, before:

# Dragons Domain IV MUD Tools

A collection of tools for parsing and analysing data files used by the Dragons Domain IV MUD ("DD4 MUD").

The MUD server code can be found at [github.com/fromage-fraser/dd4](https://github.com/fromage-fraser/dd4).

## Tools

Tools are a collection of Kotlin programs. They run on the JVM and target Java 11.
You will need Java (at least version 11) to build the tools.
The project uses the `gradle` build tool. `make` and `npm` are recommended.
See below for building information.

### Area Parser

Parses DD4 area files writes them out to a YAML format. These files are used by other tools in this suite.

### Area Checker

Runs some basic linting checks over parsed area data. Can be used to find basic formatting errors, etc.

### Map Maker

Creates static HTML maps from parsed area files.

**NOTE:** These maps are far from perfect and have various layout issues.
However, they are generally "good enough". Lots to improve here!

### Area Query

Generates a specialised area entity database for use in an external query tool.

## Sample data

The _sample-data/_ directory is used by the Makefile to look for MUD area files.
It is empty in this repository: the _area/_ directory from the _dd4_ repository can be copied there.
Sample data are not required to run the tools: you can manually specify the location of source area data.
But you may wish to use `make` as it is more convenient.

## Build

`make` can be used to build the individual tools.

Clean the _output/_ and build directories:

    make clean

Build the tools:

    make build

Tool JARs will be copied to the _output/lib/_ directory.

## Usage

`make`  can be used to run the built tools against area data in the _sample-data/_ directory.
The built tools can be run manually to specify other input and output data.

### Parse area files

Parse sample-data area files and write them to the `output/data/areas.yml` file:

    make parse

General usage:

    java -jar output/lib/area-parser.jar --input-dir path/to/mud/area/dir --output-file path/to/parsed/areas.yml

    java -jar output/lib/area-parser.jar --help

### Check area files

Check area data. Provides some basic linting. Uses parsed area data as input.

Check sample-data area files:

    make check

General usage:

    java -jar output/lib/area-checker.jar --input-file path/to/parsed/areas.yml

    java -jar output/lib/area-checker.jar --help

### Create maps

Create individual HTML maps for areas, with an index page. Uses parsed area data as input.

To create maps from sample-data area files and write them to the `output/maps/minified/` directory:

    make maps

For full usage:

    java -jar output/lib/map-maker.jar --input-file path/to/parsed/areas.yml --output-dir path/to/maps/dir

    java -jar output/lib/map-maker.jar --help

This process requires the `html-minifier` Javascript library to be installed:

    npm install html-minifier -g

To generate maps without this minification process, run

    make maps-unminified

This will write maps to the `output/maps/unminified/` directory.
Note that maps are quite large if not minified.

The following is convenient for regenerating and checking maps quickly:

    make clean-output maps-unminified

### Query DB

Create a JSON document of area data that forms a static database for query tools.
Supports an external tool but may be generally useful.

    make query-db

Commit message:

Exclude hidden areas from map making (#13)
Don't include hidden areas when building maps. These include dummy
areas used for quests, special item/mob definitions, and so on.

README.md, after:

# Dragons Domain IV MUD Tools

A collection of tools for parsing and analysing data files used by the Dragons Domain IV MUD ("DD4 MUD").

The MUD server code can be found at [github.com/fromage-fraser/dd4](https://github.com/fromage-fraser/dd4).

## Tools

Tools are a collection of Kotlin programs. They run on the JVM and target Java 11.
You will need Java (at least version 11) to build the tools.
The project uses the `gradle` build tool. `make` and `npm` are recommended.
See below for building information.

### Area Parser

Parses DD4 area files writes them out to a YAML format. These files are used by other tools in this suite.

### Area Checker

Runs some basic linting checks over parsed area data. Can be used to find basic formatting errors, etc.

### Map Maker

Creates static HTML maps from parsed area files.

**NOTE:** These maps are far from perfect and have various layout issues.
However, they are generally "good enough". Lots to improve here!

Some areas are excluded from the map making process, including clan headquarters and "hidden" areas.
"Hidden" areas are typically not able to be directly explored by players: they are usually just containers
for special objects and mobs.

### Area Query

Generates a specialised area entity database for use in an external query tool.

## Sample data

The _sample-data/_ directory is used by the Makefile to look for MUD area files.
It is empty in this repository: the _area/_ directory from the _dd4_ repository can be copied there.
Sample data are not required to run the tools: you can manually specify the location of source area data.
But you may wish to use `make` as it is more convenient.

## Build

`make` can be used to build the individual tools.

Clean the _output/_ and build directories:

    make clean

Build the tools:

    make build

Tool JARs will be copied to the _output/lib/_ directory.

## Usage

`make`  can be used to run the built tools against area data in the _sample-data/_ directory.
The built tools can be run manually to specify other input and output data.

### Parse area files

Parse sample-data area files and write them to the `output/data/areas.yml` file:

    make parse

General usage:

    java -jar output/lib/area-parser.jar --input-dir path/to/mud/area/dir --output-file path/to/parsed/areas.yml

    java -jar output/lib/area-parser.jar --help

### Check area files

Check area data. Provides some basic linting. Uses parsed area data as input.

Check sample-data area files:

    make check

General usage:

    java -jar output/lib/area-checker.jar --input-file path/to/parsed/areas.yml

    java -jar output/lib/area-checker.jar --help

### Create maps

Create individual HTML maps for areas, with an index page. Uses parsed area data as input.

To create maps from sample-data area files and write them to the `output/maps/minified/` directory:

    make maps

For full usage:

    java -jar output/lib/map-maker.jar --input-file path/to/parsed/areas.yml --output-dir path/to/maps/dir

    java -jar output/lib/map-maker.jar --help

This process requires the `html-minifier` Javascript library to be installed:

    npm install html-minifier -g

To generate maps without this minification process, run

    make maps-unminified

This will write maps to the `output/maps/unminified/` directory.
Note that maps are quite large if not minified.

The following is convenient for regenerating and checking maps quickly:

    make clean-output maps-unminified

### Query DB

Create a JSON document of area data that forms a static database for query tools.
Supports an external tool but may be generally useful.

    make query-db
